** 1983 c.828 ยง1
** disclaimer: do not rely on this. not legal advice.
** repo url: https://github.com/jwchristiansen/ors653.295


653.295 When noncompetition and bonus restriction agreements enforceable; applicability of restriction.

(1) A noncompetition agreement entered into between an employer and employe is void and shall not be enforced by any court in this state unless the agreement is entered into upon the initial employment or subsequent bona fide advancement of the employe with the employer.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section applies only to noncompetition agreements made in the context of an employment relationship or contract and not otherwise.

(3) Subsection (1) of this section applies only to noncompetition agreements entered into after July 22, 1977.

(4) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply to bonus restriction agreements, which are lawful agreements that may be enforced by the courts in this state.

(5) Nothing in this section restricts the right of any person to protect trade secrets or other proprietary information by injunction or any other lawful means under other applicable laws.

(6) As used in this section:

  (a) "Bonus restriction agreement" means an agreement, written or oral, express or implied, between an employer and employe under which:

    (A) Competition by the employe with the employer is limited or restrained after termination of employment, but the restraint is limited to a period of time, a geographic area and specified activities, all of which are reasonable in relation to the services described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph;

    (B) The services performed by the employe pursuant to the agreement include substantial involvement in management of the employer's business, personal contact with customers, knowledge of customer requirements related to the employer's business or knowledge of trade secrets or other proprietary information of the employer; and

    (C) The penalty imposed on the employe for competition against the employer is limited to forfeiture of profit sharing or other bonus compensation that has not yet been paid to the employe.

  (b) "Employe" and "employer" have the meaning provided for those terms in ORS 652.310; and

  (c) "Noncompetition agreement" means an agreement, written or oral, express or implied, between an employer and employe under which the employe agrees that he, either by himself or as an employe of another person, shall not compete with the employer in providing products, processes or services, that are similar to the employer's products, processes or services for a period of time or within a specified geographic area after termination of employment.

[1977 c. 646 ยง 2; 1983 c. 828 ยง 1]

Sec. 2. ORS 653. 295, as amended by section 1 of this Act, applies to employment relationships and bonus restriction agreements in effect on or entered into after the effective date of this Act [October 15, 1983]
