** 2005 c.22 §459
** disclaimer: do not rely on this. not legal advice.
** repo url: https://github.com/jwchristiansen/ors653.295


653.295 Noncompetition agreements; bonus restriction agreements; applicability of restrictions.

(1) A noncompetition agreement entered into between an employer and employee is void and may not be enforced by any court in this state unless the agreement is entered into upon the:

	(a) Initial employment of the employee with the employer; or

	(b) Subsequent bona fide advancement of the employee with the employer.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section applies only to noncompetition agreements made in the context of an employment relationship or contract and not otherwise.

(3)

	(a) Subsection (1)(a) of this section applies only to noncompetition agreements entered into after July 22, 1977.

	(b) Subsection (1)(b), subsections (4) and (5) and subsection (6)(a) of this section apply to employment relationships and bonus restriction agreements in effect or entered into after October 15, 1983.

(4) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply to bonus restriction agreements, which are lawful agreements that may be enforced by the courts in this state.

(5) Nothing in this section restricts the right of any person to protect trade secrets or other proprietary information by injunction or any other lawful means under other applicable laws.

(6) As used in this section:

  (a) "Bonus restriction agreement" means an agreement, written or oral, express or implied, between an employer and employee under which:

    (A) Competition by the employee with the employer is limited or restrained after termination of employment, but the restraint is limited to a period of time, a geographic area and specified activities, all of which are reasonable in relation to the services described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph;

    (B) The services performed by the employee pursuant to the agreement include substantial involvement in management of the employer's business, personal contact with customers, knowledge of customer requirements related to the employer's business or knowledge of trade secrets or other proprietary information of the employer; and

    (C) The penalty imposed on the employee for competition against the employer is limited to forfeiture of profit sharing or other bonus compensation that has not yet been paid to the employee.

  (b) "Employee" and "employer" have the meanings given those terms in ORS 652.310.

  (c) "Noncompetition agreement" means an agreement, written or oral, express or implied, between an employer and employee under which the employee agrees that the employee, either alone or as an employee of another person, will not compete with the employer in providing products, processes or services that are similar to the employer's products, processes or services for a period of time or within a specified geographic area after termination of employment.

[1977 c. 646 § 2; 1983 c. 828 § 1; 1985 c. 565 § 85; 2005 c. 22 § 459]
